[MUSIC PLAYING]
UFO sightings on
the rise this year.
The US government appears to be
taking disclosures seriously.
And more former
intelligence officers
speaking out about UFOs.
It begs the question,
what do we do
if extraterrestrials show up?
This is "Gaia News".
Interest in UFOs and
calls for disclosure
has shifted from a fringe
movement to more mainstream.
For years, ufologists
have demanded
full exposure of all
alien contact with humans.
But what should we actually
do if extraterrestrials
make themselves known to
us on Earth or in space?
That's the question posed by
Harvard professor of science
Avi Loeb in his latest article
for "Scientific American".
Professor Loeb, author of
"Extraterrestrial, The First
Sign of Intelligent
Life Beyond Earth",
thinks we should be prepared
for an alien arrival.
>> The first thing to ask is
how to communicate with them.
It involves the language,
how to decode the signals
they send in our direction.
And the second is,
of course, the medium
by which they communicate.
We are used to sound waves as we
speak or to written documents.
But they might use a different
method of communication.
>> There's no international
policy for how to greet alien
visitors.
Is that something
we should look into?
>> Well, we do not know how
soon we will have an encounter.
And therefore, it's
difficult to come up
with a global policy that would
last very long because we might
ultimately venture into
space and have sustainable
bases on the moon, on Mars.
The other thing
is to keep in mind
is that we're most likely to
meet the piece of equipment,
piece of technology
before we meet living
creatures because the
technological equipment is
much more likely to
survive long journeys.
And so I think the
first thing for us to do
is space archaeology,
looking for relics
of other civilizations that may
have died by now may not exist,
but they left some
relics in space, just
like ancient cultures on Earth.
>> Former CIA director James
Woolsey said we should be
friendly to any
creatures if they exist.
What do you think
about his statement?
>> In that sense,
we should be humble.
We should be modest and
try to learn from them.
So if we ever meet
them, we could find out
answers to questions that
we currently find puzzling.
What was there
before the Big Bang?
What is inside a black hole?
What is dark matter?
How early did life
emerge in the universe?
All kinds of questions to
which we don't have answers.
And that would be fascinating
to learn from them.
We can also learn
from their mistakes
if they misbehaved and
had self-inflicted wounds
as a result of that.
We can avoid a similar fate
by getting our act together.
>> With all the challenges
facing the world today,
why should we
invest in searching
for extraterrestrials?
>> Well, the most important
thing for us is to recognize
the possibility that
we are not alone,
and that we might not be the
smartest kid on the block.
And what that means is that
you have to keep your eyes open
rather than assume that
we are unique and special,
and there is nothing out there.
It's sort of like closing
yourself off at your home
and not looking
through the window.
And if you don't do
that, you would never
recognize that you
have neighbors.
Just like the fact
that philosophers
didn't look through the
telescope of Galileo,
didn't make the sun
go around the Earth.
They didn't look.
They remained ignorant.
And the Earth continues
to move around the sun.
Reality doesn't care
whether we ignore it or not.
>> How might contact with ETs
affect humanity and society?
>> Any contact with an advanced
civilization would have a huge
impact on our
culture, on society.
It's the kind of question
that is the most important one
for humanity because
it will change
our aspirations for space.
It will change our
perspective about our place
in the universe.
I think it's very
commonsensical for us
to assume that we are not
alone, that we are not
the smartest kid on the block.
Because whenever
we assume that we
have some privileges in the
universe, we were proven wrong.
My suggestion is let's learn
a lesson from these examples
and assume that we ourselves
as intelligent beings are not
unique and are not necessarily
the most intelligent ones.
And we are not
privileged in any way.
And therefore, we should
search for others out there,
rather than assume that we
are the only ones around.
>> The US government's report
on UFO disclosure is due this
summer.
And we'll see what the
government will make public
and what remains secret.
But whatever they reveal,
according to Professor Loeb,
acting like we are the
only intelligent beings
in the universe is
a childish exercise.
We should learn from
our past mistakes
and explore the universe
with wonder and humility.
And keep our eyes and hearts
open to new possibilities.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News".
[MUSIC PLAYING]